
          **
What to consider and challenge: gen-spec with attributes (what I know)
**
Str#67. "Common Attributes" Strategy // establishing responsibilities / what I know (consider and challenge)
- Classes with common attributes?
- If the attributes have the same name and meaning, and if you can find a generalization-specialization that makes good sense, then add a generalization class and factor out the commonality.
Str#67a. "Collapse Whole-Part When Same Attributes Apply" Strategy // establishing responsibilities / what I know (consider and challenge)
- When you find a whole-part -- and the same attributes apply to the whole and the part:
. Collapse the whole and part into "class with objects" symbol.
. Add a whole-part object connection to that one symbol.
. Add "super" and "sub" attributes, showing that each object knows the objects above it and below it.
. Why: Fewer symbols. Less redundancy. And more resilient to change.
. Example: Company - Division - Section - Team Collapse to "Organization" or "OrgUnit."
Str#68. "Partially Applicable Attribute" Strategy // establishing responsibilities / what I know (consider and challenge)
- Attribute that applies only to certain objects in a class?
- Do you have an attribute which applies only to certain kinds of objects?
- Do you have an attribute that may have the value "not applicable"?
- If so, factor out the specialized attribute into a specialization class.
Str#69. "No Attributes" Strategy // establishing responsibilities / what I know (consider and challenge)
- An object with no attributes? When this happens, one of two things is going on.
. Either it's a narrow "need to know" and just one object in that class.
. . Check: there really is just one object in that class.
. . Check: attributes really could apply, yet all potential attributes are outside of the system's responsibilities.
. . Fine!
. Or it's got object connections (an attribute, show graphically). That's fine!
. Or it's a nasty "function blob," with services better done by other objects themselves.
. . Centralized control is troublesome; here's why:
. . . It fails to use problem domain classes to partition both attributes and services.
. . . Encapsulation goes down (higher coupling and weaker cohesion).
. . Here's what to do about it.
. . . Get rid of the "function blob."
. . . Applying the "what I do" strategies as a guide, put each service in the object that the old function blob was acting on.
Establishing responsibilities / what I know
Strategies for building object models

        